Your body has enough graphite inside of it to produce roughly 9,000 pencils.
Drink water before bed if you want to wake up early.
It is possible to have both the flu and COVID-19 at the same time.
Sleeping with an artificial light on at night, such as a lamp or television, was associated with an increased risk of weight gain of at least 11 pounds and obesity in women.
The optimal noise level for carrying out abstract thinking and creative tasks is 70 dB, which is the average noise level of a coffee shop.
Walking, whether outside or on a treadmill, leads to more creative thinking.
Squatting down makes it quicker and easier to poop as compared to sitting down, probably because sitting upright leaves a kink in the gut that straightens out when we squat.
Surprisingly, 20% of the world’s oxygen is produced in the Amazon Rain forest. This is the largest rainforest on Earth. Its Basin covers 40% of the South American continent.
Our mouth taste receptors are made to work by detecting dissolved substances. If you don’t have saliva to dissolve the molecules in food responsible for its flavor, you will not be able to taste it.
Improve the taste of your coffee with salt. Just a pinch will remove bitterness from coffee.
You can ripen banannas quickly by putting them in a bag with ripe tomatoes.
It takes 4 drops of bleach to treat 1 quart or liter of water
80% of the earth’s surface is covered with water
3 years equals the official shelf life of MREs
Add 37 to the number of chirps a cricket makes in 15 seconds and you’ve got the approximate outside temp
8000 feet is when people typically start feeling the effects of altitude sickness
72 hours is how long your Emergency Bug Out Bag should be good for
550 lbs is the tensile strength of military spec parachute cord
66% of the human body is water
30+ equals the uses for a bandanna in a survival situation
8 cups equals the daily recommended amount of water
16 drops of bleach to treat 1 gallon of water
1% of total water amount is what has been lost by the time a person feels thirsty
75% of the human brain is water
83% of human blood is water
4000 cases per year of illness due to drinking water contamination in US
30 days is the approximate time one can live without food
70 gallons is how much water a Birch tree gives off in evaporation per day
1% of the earth’s water is suitable for drinking
30 & 50 degrees: The temperatures between which most hypothermia cases develop
7 is the number of strands inside of military spec  550 parachute cord
3 is the universal signal number for distress – Sets of 3
1 WHISTLE BLAST is International Whistle Code for “Where are you?”
2 WHISTLE BLASTS is International Whistle Code for “Come to me.”
3 WHISTLE BLASTS is International Whistle Code for “I need help.”
59-60 is the Rockwell Hardness Value (HRC) of a Mora Knife Carbon Steel Blade
5 days is the approximate time one can live without water
400 Denier notates the mass (in grams) of 9000 meters of the yard which is woven to create 400 Denier Nylon – a VERY popular fabric in the outdoor industry
8.35 lbs is the weight of 1 gallon of water
3 dots is equal to 1 dash in MORSE CODE
2 Iodine Tablets Purify 1 Liter of Water
Chocolate comes from seeds of the cacao tree. To produce those seeds, the trees rely on the pollination services of­ more than a dozen species of biting flies called midges. However, cacao flowers produce fruit (and the seeds within) only around 30 percent of the time.
Ants use pheromones to follow trails. If a trail loops, they get locked running in a circle and die from exhaustion. This is called an ant mill.
When a horse is running, its breathing and stride are linked in a 1:1 ratio, so for every stride they take, they also take one breath. The peak airflow they generate is very high. Thus, a very small defect in the airway can cause a big decrease in performance.
Ten percent of the oxygen we breathe comes from just one kind of bacteria in the ocean. Now laboratory tests have shown that these bacteria are susceptible to plastic pollution.
All of NASA's research is free for the public to read! NASA is using PubMed Central to permanently preserve and provide easy public access to the peer-reviewed papers resulting from NASA-funded research.
Pregnant women attract twice as many mosquitoes as non-pregnant women. Pregnant women exhale more carbon dioxide and have higher body temperatures, allowing mosquitoes to detect them more easily.
In 2016, 10 psychiatrists studied 400 movies to find the most realistic psychopath. Anton Chigurh from "No Country for Old Men" came in 1st. More iconic psychopaths, including Patrick Bateman ("American Psycho") were deemed to not quite fit the psychopath mold.
Bumblebees can learn to tug on strings to retrieve food.
Butterflies congregate on turtles' and crocodilians' eyes to drink their tears. They need salt and the tears of these reptiles are an easy way to obtain it.
Old bonobos, like aging humans, suffer from long-sightedness and could use glasses. This suggests long-sightedness is not a product of modern lifestyles, but a natural part of aging.
Many smoke detectors are made with Americium which is the only artificially created element to have a common market.
Plants apply a chemical reaction called photosynthesis to convert carbon dioxide and water into food and oxygen. It's one of the most common chemical reactions and also one of the most important because plants produce oxygen as well as food for themselves and animals
Every time you strike a match, burn a candle, build a fire, or light a grill, you see the combustion reaction. Combustion combines energetic molecules with oxygen to produce carbon dioxide and water.
Batteries use electrochemical or redox reactions to convert chemical energy into electrical energy. Spontaneous redox reactions occur in galvanic cells, while nonspontaneous chemical reactions take place in electrolytic cells.
Whenever you combine an acid (e.g., vinegar, lemon juice, sulfuric acid, or muriatic acid) with a base (e.g., baking soda, soap, ammonia, or acetone), you are performing an acid-base reaction. These reactions neutralize the acid and base to yield salt and water.
Soaps and detergents clean by way of chemical reactions. Soap emulsifies grime, which means oily stains bind to the soap so they can be lifted away with water. Detergents act as surfactants, lowering the surface tension of water so it can interact with oils to isolate and rinse
Cooking uses heat to cause chemical changes in food. For example, when you hard boil an egg, the hydrogen sulfide produced by heating the egg white can react with iron from the egg yolk to form a grayish-green ring around the yolk.
Sodium is a highly combustible element and the addition of water can make it explode.
Magnesium ignites easily and burns very brightly.
Potassium Chlorate is a compound containing potassium, chlorine and oxygen. It is often used as a disinfectant and in fireworks and explosives. When potassium chlorate is heated to melting point, any item added to it will cause a rapid disintegration in the form of an explosion
When a superconductor is cooled to below its transitional temperature, it becomes diamagnetic: this is when something is repulsed from a magnetic field rather than drawn in to it
Sodium acetate, when heated and cooled, becomes supersaturated in water. When it comes in contact with another object it re-crystalizes.
Superabsorbent polymers (also known as hydrogels) are able to absorb extremely large amounts of liquid relative to its own mass. For this reason, they are used in the commercial production of diapers.
Sulfur Hexafluoride is a colorless, odorless, non-toxic and non-flammable gas. Because it is over 5 times denser than air, it is able to be poured in to open containers and light weight objects can float on it as if it were water.
The reason that your voice is lowered when you inhale sulfur hexafluoride is that the weight of the gas slows the sound waves produced in your vocal tract to just under half the speed of the sound. Helium works in the opposite way.
When helium is cooled cooled to -271c, it reaches the lambda point. At this stage (as a liquid) it is known as Helium II. 
Thermite is aluminum powder and a metal oxide which produces an aluminothermic reaction known as a thermite reaction. It is not explosive, but it can create short bursts of extremely high temperature.
500 years later, scientists discover what probably killed the Aztecs. Within five years, 15 million people – 80% of the population – were wiped out in an epidemic named ‘cocoliztli’, meaning pestilence
Regularly taking multi-vitamin supplements does not reduce the risk of developing or dying from cardiovascular disease.
Eating more fruits and vegetables is associated with lower risk of hip fractures in men and women over 50.
Eating more fish or supplements high in omega-3 fatty acids may reduce the risk of sudden death from cardiac events in men, including men without a history of cardiovascular disease.
People who consumed large amounts of sugar (over 51 grams per day for women or 67 grams for men) had a higher risk of developing five or more psychiatrically-relevant symptoms within five years.
Every position of a Rubik’s Cube can be solved in 20 moves or less.
Dog owners have a 24% lower risk of dying early and a 31% lower risk of dying from cardiovascular disease.
Cat owners have a lower risk of dying from a heart attack or cardiovascular disease, even if they no longer live with a cat.
Women sleep better and feel more comfortable and secure when sharing their bed with dogs rather than with cats or human partners.
Having a partner who empathizes with one’s negative emotions is good for relationship quality, although empathizing with positive emotions may carry even greater benefit.
Drawing improves the ability to remember words compared with writing them down. This effect is greater for older adults and people with dementia than for younger participants.
Kids learning to read improved more when they read alongside an audio rendition of the text, compared to those who read silently.





